Release 161.0.0 (#4413)
MetaMask/core: packages/assets-controllers/CHANGELOG.md

## [Unreleased]

## [33.0.0]

### Added

> - Added `Mutex` lock in the `updateNftMetadata` function ([#4325](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4325))

Reviewer: Is this an addition? Does the new mutex lock mean a new feature for the user or does it mean a change in behavior?

Author: IDK the actual context of this PR, but I believe it's better to be categorized as a `Changed`, after quickly reading the PR content, this does not seems to be a new feature.

I'll change this to `Changed`

Reviewer: It looks like the behavior change is something like this:

```md
- Prevent unnecessary state updates when executing the `NftController`'s `updateNftMetadata` method by comparing the metadata of fetched NFTs and NFTs in state and synchronizing state updates using a mutex lock. ([#4325](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4325))
```

@sahar-fehri Would you be able to take a look at this entry and tell us whether it's accurate?

Reviewer 2: Hello 👋 , That sounds correct, apologies for the confusion 🙏 
I wanted to introduce that mutex to synchronize the updates when the `updateNftMetadata` function is called on mobile. Having the version without the mutex was triggering many unnecessary updates.

Author: Thanks @sahar-fehri, @MajorLift let me use your entry then!

Reviewer: Sounds good! I edited it to emphasize the key change. 

Thanks for the clarification @sahar-fehri :)

Reviewer: Also this might be a Fixed rather than a Changed.

Author: You're right, lemme re-categorized this then :)

  - Add `AccountTrackerControllerMessenger` type

> - `NftController` now allows `AccountsController:getAccount`, `AccountsController:getSelectedAccount` as messenger actions and subscribes to the `AccountsController:selectedEvmAccountChange` messenger event ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))

Reviewer: I agree with Elliot's description of the desired behavior, but it doesn't appear that we have type or runtime error guardrails in controller constructor for incompatible messengers. Passing in messengers with incomplete or `never` allowlists into controller constructors seems to work fine.

Runtime errors are thrown, but only when `call` and `subscribe`/`unsubscribe` (or more accurately `#isAllowedAction`, `#isAllowedEvent`) is being invoked.

I'll experiment with this a bit more in the test files since I might just be doing something wrong.

- `NftDetectionController` now allows `AccountsController:getSelectedAccount` as a messenger action ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
- Token price API support for mantle network ([#4376](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4376))

### Changed

- **BREAKING:** Bump dependency and peer dependency `@metamask/accounts-controller` to `^17.0.0` ([#4413](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4413))

> - Upgrade `TokenRatesController` to `BaseControllerV2` ([#4314](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4314))

Author: Sure, lemme do that.

> - Upgrade `TokenRatesController` to `BaseControllerV2` ([#4314](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4314))

Author: Done here: [c9a6139](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4413/commits/c9a61392ecf9dfc9bbe1ea6099afea951e28ee75)

> - Update Nft controllers to use `selectedAccountId` instead of `selectedAddress` ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))

Reviewer 3: I think this may be inaccurate now based on the changes in this PR. What about:

``` suggestion
- The `NftController` now reads the selected address via the `AccountsController`, using the `AccountsController:selectedEvmAccountChange` messenger event to stay up to date ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
- `NftDetectionController` now reads the currently selected account from AccountsController instead of PreferencesController([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
```

Author: Did commit your suggestion (but also edited it a bit here: [f71d036](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4413/commits/f71d036637b996baf51dcb02c62751f712b54f08))

> - `TokenRatesController` uses checksum instead of lowercase format for token addresses ([#4377](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4377))

Reviewer 3: This feels more like it belongs in the "Fixed" category to me, since it reverts a change that was mistakenly made in a previous release. Or, if it does belong in the "Changed" category, should it count as a breaking change? What are your thoughts?

Author: I do agree this looks more like a "Fixed". I'll update this.

Author: Done here: [f273f6e](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4413/commits/f273f6e1001589b157deaa1407a9983990d47a30)

- Bump `@metamask/keyring-api` to `^8.0.0` ([#4405](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4405))
- Bump `@metamask/eth-snap-keyring` to `^4.3.1` ([#4405](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4405))
- Bump `@metamask/keyring-controller` to `^17.1.0` ([#4413](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4413))

### Removed

- **BREAKING:** Remove `NftController` constructor options `selectedAddress`. ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
- **BREAKING:** Remove `AccountTrackerController` constructor options `getIdentities`, `getSelectedAddress` and `onPreferencesStateChange` ([#4225](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4225))

> - Remove `value` from price API responses ([#4364](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4364))

Reviewer 3: This seems like a breaking change to me:

``` suggestion
- **BREAKING:** Remove `value` from price API responses ([#4364](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4364))
```

And it might be more accurate to mention the type that was affected, or at least mention that this is present in state:

``` suggestion
- **BREAKING:** Remove `value` property from the data for each token in `state.marketData` ([#4364](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4364))
  - The `price` property should be used instead.
```

Author: Add the `REMOVED` part here: [83c5a8f](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4413/commits/83c5a8f3f9bf38a7319a3acac5125bb196e2dba2)

> ### Added
> 
> - Added `Mutex` lock in the `updateNftMetadata` function ([#4325](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4325))
> - Token price API support for mantle network ([#4376](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4376))
> 
> ### Changed
> 
> - **BREAKING:** `NftController` constructor argument `selectedAddress` has been removed. ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
> - **BREAKING:** `NftController` now requires `AccountsController:get{Account,SelectedAccount}` messenger actions. ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
> - **BREAKING:** `NftController` now requires `AccountsController:selectedEvmAccountChange` event. ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
> - **BREAKING:** `NftDetectionController` now requires `AccountsControlelr:getSelectedAccount` messenger actions. ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
> - **BREAKING:** `AccountTrackerController` now requires a controller messenger ([#4225](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4225))
> - **BREAKING:** Removed `getIdentities`, `getSelectedAddress` and `onPreferencesStateChange` from the constructor arguments of the `AccountTrackerController` ([#4225](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4225))
> - **BREAKING:** Bump dependency and peer dependency `@metamask/accounts-controller` to `^17.0.0` ([#4413](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4413))
> - Upgrade `TokenRatesController` to `BaseControllerV2` ([#4314](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4314))
> - Update Nft controllers to use `selectedAccountId` instead of `selectedAddress` ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
> - `TokenRatesController` uses checksum instead of lowercase format for token addresses ([#4377](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4377))
> - Bump `@metamask/keyring-api` to `^8.0.0` ([#4405](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4405))
> - Bump `@metamask/eth-snap-keyring` to `^4.3.1` ([#4405](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4405))
> - Bump `@metamask/keyring-controller` to `^17.1.0` ([#4413](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4413))
> 
> ### Removed
> 
> - Remove `value` from price API responses ([#4364](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4364))

Reviewer: - Recategorized entries.
- We're moving away from "controller-messenger" in favor of "messenger" (https://github.com/MetaMask/decisions/blob/main/decisions/core/0001-messaging-non-controllers.md#decision-outcome).
- Additions to action/event allowlists are not breaking changes.
  - "Requires" isn't the best description for the functionality of action/event allowlists. We have previously used "allows" for actions and "subscribes to" for events.
- Constructor "option" instead of "argument", to avoid the impression that users can directly pass in constructor options object properties as function arguments.
- Added entry on new export.

```suggestion
### Added

- **BREAKING:** Add `messenger` as a constructor option for `AccountTrackerController` ([#4225](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4225))
(https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4225))
  - Add `AccountTrackerControllerMessenger` type
- `NftController` now allows `AccountsController:getAccount`, `AccountsController:getSelectedAccount` as messenger actions and subscribes to the `AccountsController:selectedEvmAccountChange` messenger event ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
- `NftDetectionController` now allows `AccountsController:getSelectedAccount` as a messenger action ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
- Add `Mutex` lock in the `updateNftMetadata` function ([#4325](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4325))
- Token price API support for mantle network ([#4376](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4376))

### Changed

- **BREAKING:** Bump dependency and peer dependency `@metamask/accounts-controller` to `^17.0.0` ([#4413](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4413))
- Upgrade `TokenRatesController` to `BaseControllerV2` ([#4314](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4314))
- Update Nft controllers to use `selectedAccountId` instead of `selectedAddress` ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
- `TokenRatesController` uses checksum instead of lowercase format for token addresses ([#4377](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4377))
- Bump `@metamask/keyring-api` to `^8.0.0` ([#4405](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4405))
- Bump `@metamask/eth-snap-keyring` to `^4.3.1` ([#4405](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4405))
- Bump `@metamask/keyring-controller` to `^17.1.0` ([#4413](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4413))

### Removed

- **BREAKING:** Remove `NftController` constructor options `selectedAddress`. ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
- **BREAKING:** Remove `AccountTrackerController` constructor options `getIdentities`, `getSelectedAddress` and `onPreferencesStateChange`  ([#4225]
- Remove `value` from price API responses ([#4364](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4364))
```

### Fixed

> - Catch the case when data are not available for given token ([#4361](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4361))

Reviewer: `catch` is an implementation detail that can be omitted from the changelog. I think we could be a bit more clear on what is being made newly available to the user when market data is not returned by the codefi api.

Author: Also used the CHANGELOG section of this PR, maybe we could fallback to the PR's title in this case then, something like:

```
- Prevent the use of market data when not available for a given token
```

WDYT?

Reviewer: Hmm based on the test case it looks like the PR might be doing the opposite:

```suggestion
- Fix token prices market data not being returned if price data is unavailable for any individual token ([#4361](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4361))
```

I'm not sure, though. @salimtb @bergeron Would you be able to provide context on this?

Reviewer 4: hey everyone,
the goal of the PR is to revise the approach to ensure that when market data for token prices is not available, the corresponding row for that token is removed. This adjustment is made to handle instances where there is no available price conversion data for a specific token.
i agree with what @ccharly suggested we can use:
```
- Prevent the use of market data when not available for a given token
```

Author: thanks @salimtb, lemme use that then!

Reviewer: @salimtb Thanks for the explanation!

> - Mutex released on the finally block of refresh function ([#4270](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4270))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix `refresh` method remaining locked indefinitely after it was run successfully. Now lock is released on successful as well as failed runs. ([#4270](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4270))
```

The changelog should convey user impact instead of implementation details.

Author: Sounds good to me, I just reported what was noted in the CHANGELOG section of that PR! :)

Reviewer: @ccharly Yes no worries! We usually try to do another pass on the changelog entries while reviewing release candidates.

- **BREAKING:** `NftDetectionController` messenger must now allow `AccountsController:getSelectedAccount` as a messenger action ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
- Token price API support for mantle network ([#4376](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4376))

### Changed

- **BREAKING:** Bump dependency and peer dependency `@metamask/accounts-controller` to `^17.0.0` ([#4413](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4413))
- **BREAKING:** `TokenRatesController` now inherits from `StaticIntervalPollingController` instead of `StaticIntervalPollingControllerV1` ([#4314](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4314))
  - The constructor now takes a single options object rather than three arguments. Some options have been removed; see later entries.
- **BREAKING:** Rename `TokenRatesState` to `TokenRatesControllerState`, and convert from `interface` to `type` ([#4314](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4314))

> - Update Nft controllers to use `selectedAccountId` instead of `selectedAddress` ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))

Author: Sounds good to me, here's an updated suggestions with a slightly better markup:

```suggestion
- The `NftController` now reads the selected address via the `AccountsController`, using the `AccountsController:selectedEvmAccountChange` messenger event to stay up to date ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
- `NftDetectionController` now reads the currently selected account from `AccountsController` instead of `PreferencesController` ([#4221](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4221))
```

## [33.0.0]

### Added

- **BREAKING:** Add `messenger` as a constructor option for `AccountTrackerController` ([#4225](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4225))
- **BREAKING:** Add `messenger` option to `TokenRatesController` ([#4314](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4314))
  - This messenger must allow the actions `TokensController:getState`, `NetworkController:getNetworkClientById`, `NetworkController:getState`, and `PreferencesController:getState` and allow the events `PreferencesController:stateChange`, `TokensController:stateChange`, and `NetworkController:stateChange`.
- Add types `TokenRatesControllerGetStateAction`, `TokenRatesControllerActions`, `TokenRatesControllerStateChangeEvent`, `TokenRatesControllerEvents`, `TokenRatesControllerMessenger`([#4314](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4314))
- Add function `getDefaultTokenRatesControllerState` ([#4314](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4314))
- Add `enable` and `disable` methods to `TokenRatesController` ([#4314](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4314))
  - These are used to stop and restart polling.
- Export `ContractExchangeRates` type ([#4314](https://github.com/MetaMask/core/pull/4314))

>   - Add `AccountTrackerControllerMessenger` type

Reviewer: Ah looks like this belongs under line 14. 

Leaving as reference to be fixed by a future PR covering `AccountTrackerController`.
